# node-swc-template

This template provides a foundational structure for creating web applications in Node.js with the Express framework. It leverages essential tools such as swc, TypeScript, ESLint, and Prettier to streamline development, ensuring high performance, adherence to coding standards, and efficient code optimization. The server responds on http://localhost:3000 with a JSON message: `{ ok: true }`, indicating proper functionality.

## Updates
This template has undergone substantial improvements to enhance code quality, maintenance, and tooling integration. Key changes include:

- **Dependency Updates:** Updated versions of dependencies, including "@swc/cli," "@swc/core," and "@swc-node/register," to their latest releases.

- **ESLint Configuration:** Simplified and refined ESLint configurations in the `.eslintrc.json` file, now extending `@guarapi/eslint-config-guarapi` while removing specific rules.

- **VSCode Configuration:** Adjusted Visual Studio Code settings in the `settings.json` file, modifying ESLint action to "explicit" on code save.

- **Prettier Configuration:** Introduced a specific Prettier configuration in the `package.json` file, referencing `@guarapi/eslint-config-guarapi/prettierrc.js`.

- **Updates to npm Scripts:** Enhanced npm scripts, including the addition of the "types" script for executing TypeScript and "lint" script for linting.

- **Versions of Development Dependencies:** Updated versions of development dependencies, such as ESLint, TypeScript, Prettier, among others. This template now utilizes **pnpm** as the package manager to manage dependencies more efficiently.

These changes aim to improve code quality, maintenance, and the integration of linting and formatting tools within the "node-swc-template" project.

## Project Structure
### Tooling
This project depends on the following tooling packages:

- [swc](https://github.com/swc-project/swc#readme): A high-speed JavaScript and TypeScript compiler written in Rust.
- [eslint](https://github.com/eslint/eslint#readme) + [prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier#readme): Static code analysis tools identifying problematic patterns in JavaScript code.
- [rimraf](https://github.com/isaacs/rimraf#readme): A package providing a platform-independent way to execute the `rm -rf` command.
- [nodemon](https://github.com/remy/nodemon#readme): Tools monitoring project file changes and automatically restarting the server.
- [@swc/register](https://github.com/swc-project/register#readme): Compiles TypeScript files on the fly, used in the development task by nodemon.

## Installation
To install project dependencies, run the following command:

```bash
pnpm install
```

## Start
To initiate the application in production, executing the code in the `dist` folder, run:

```bash
pnpm start
```

This command launches the application by executing the `index.js` file in the `dist` folder.

## Development
To run the project in development mode, use:

```bash
pnpm run dev
```

This starts nodemon, monitoring file changes and restarting the server automatically.

## Build
To build the project for production, run:

```bash
pnpm run build
```

This uses swc to transpile TypeScript files into JavaScript, placing them in the `dist` folder.

## Clean
To remove artifacts, run:

```bash
pnpm run clean
```

This deletes the `dist` folder, containing files generated by swc.

## Lint
To check if the code adheres to ESLint and Prettier rules, run:

```bash
pnpm run lint
```

This displays potential errors and warnings in the code, along with suggestions for resolution.

## Types
To execute TypeScript and check types, run:

```bash
pnpm run types
```

This task ensures type correctness and validates TypeScript files in the project.
